Add multi-lora support for Triton vLLM backend (#23)
triton-inference-server/vllm_backend: docs/llama_multi_lora_tutorial.md

Reviewer: Add copyright here.

+ [S-LoRA: Serving Thousands of Concurrent LoRA Adapters](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03285)
+ [Punica: Multi-Tenant LoRA Serving](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18547)

Now the vLLM has supported multi-lora, which integrated the `Punica` feature and related cuda kernels. See this [PR](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/pull/1804) for more.

The following tutorial demonstrates how to deploy **a LLaMa model** with **multiple loras** on Triton Inference Server using the Triton's [Python-based](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend/blob/main/docs/python_based_backends.md#python-based-backends) [vLLM](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/tree/main) backend.

## Step 1: prepare your weights

To support multi-lora on Triton, you need to manage your file path for **model backbone** and **lora weights** seperately.

A typical weights repository can be as follows:

```
weights
├── backbone
│	└── llama-7b-hf
└── loras
    ├── alpaca-lora-7b
    └── bactrian-x-llama-lora-7b
```

A workspace for vllm is strongly recommended, you can use the command:

```bash
mkdir -p vllm_workspace/weights
cd vllm_workspace
```

## Step 2: prepare model repository

> __2.1 download the model repository files__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
__2.1 Download the model repository files__
```

To use Triton, a model repository is needed, for *model path* , *backend configuration* and other information. The vllm backend is implemented based on python backend, and params of vllm are sampled from `model.json`.

To create a triton model repository, you may download the files through these commands:

```bash
# NOTICE: you must first cd to your vllm_workspace path.
cd vllm_workspace

mkdir -p model_repository/vllm_model/1
wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/samples/model_repository/vllm_model/1/model.json
wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/ https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/samples/model_repository/vllm_model/config.pbtxt
```

The model repository should look like this:

```
model_repository/
└── vllm_model
    ├── 1
    │   └── model.json
    └── config.pbtxt
```

> Now, you have finish the basic deployment, and the file path should look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, you have finished the basic deployment, and the file path should look like this:
```

```
vllm_workspace
├── weights
│   ├── backbone
│   │	└── llama-7b-hf
│   └── loras
│       ├── alpaca-lora-7b
│       └── bactrian-x-llama-lora-7b
│
└── model_repository
    └── vllm_model
        ├── 1
        │   └── model.json
        └── config.pbtxt
```

> __2.2 complete the `model.json` according to your needs__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
__2.2 Populate `model.json`__
```

> The content of `model.json` can be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this tutorial we will use the following set of parameters, specified in the `model.json`.
```

```json
{
    "model":"/vllm_workspace/weights/backbone/llama-7b-hf",
    "disable_log_requests": "true",
    "gpu_memory_utilization": 0.8,
    "tensor_parallel_size": 2,
    "block_size": 16,
    "enable_lora": "true",
    "max_lora_rank": 16
}
```

+ `model`: The path to your model repository
+ `disable_log_requests`: To show logs when launch vllm or not.
+ `gpu_memory_utilization`: The gpu memory allocated for the model weights and vllm *PagedAttention* kv cache manager.
+ `tensor_parallel_size`: The vllm now support the tensor paralism, so you can decide how many gpus you want to use for serving.
+ `block_size`: vLLM kv cache block size.
+ `enable_lora`: If you want to support vllm multi-lora, this should be configured and set `true`.
+ `max_lora_rank`: The maximum of LoRA rank of your lora adapter.

> For more information, you may read the source code of [EngineArgs](https://github.com/Yard1/vllm/blob/multi_lora/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L11) here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full set of parameters can be found [here](https://github.com/Yard1/vllm/blob/multi_lora/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L11).
```

> __2.3 add `multi_lora.json` to figure out the local lora path__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
__2.3 Specify local lora path__
```

Create a `multi_lora.json` file under `model_repository/vllm_model/1/` path:

```bash
cd model_repository/vllm_model/1
touch multi_lora.json
```

A `multi_lora.json` should look like this:

```json
{
    "alpaca": "/vllm_workspace/weights/loras/alpaca-lora-7b",
    "bactrian": "/vllm_workspace/weights/loras/bactrian-x-llama-7b-lora"
}
```

The **key** should be the supported lora name, and the **value** should be the specific path in your machine.

## Step 3: Start a docker container for triton-vllm serving

**A docker container is strongly recommended for serving**, and this tutorial will only demonstrate how to launch triton in docker env.

First, create a docker container using the NCG built for vllm serving:

```bash
# NOTICE: you must first cd to your vllm_workspace path.
cd vllm_workspace

sudo docker run --gpus all -it --net=host -p 8001:8001 --shm-size=12G \
--ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 -v ${PWD}:/vllm_workspace \

> -w /vllm_workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.10-vllm-python-py3 \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-w /vllm_workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:<xx.yy>-vllm-python-py3 \
```

/bin/bash
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 <xx.yy> is the version of Triton that you want to use. Please note, that Triton's vLLM container has been introduced starting from 23.10 release, and `lora` support was added in [update with target release container] release
```

> And download the `model.py` script from github:

Reviewer 2: In case `src/model.py` is updated with `lora`-related changes, next steps are redundant. As an option, we can keep them, but mention that "For pre-[target release version] containers, please replace provided in the container `/opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm/model.py` with the most up to date version.

Plus, we need to mention at what version of vllm `lora` support was added, since 23.10 container was build with 0.2.0 I believe, or later. 23.12 container comes with vllm version 0.2.3

Author: The current vllm version is 0.2.6, and multi-lora PR (by Yard1) is not merged yet. (multi-lora feature will be added in vllm 0.2.7 or later)

Since 23.12 container integrates vllm 0.2.3, the multi-lora feature will not be added temporarily. (Maybe `24.yy` container will support vllm 0.2.7+ version)

Author: I have understood what you mean, docs updated.

# Depolying multi-lora vLLM backend in Triton

> The idea of multi-lora was proposed recently, for more you can read the paper:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The idea of multi-lora was proposed recently, for more please refer to:
```

The following tutorial demonstrates how to deploy **a LLaMa model** with **multiple loras** on Triton Inference Server using the Triton's [Python-based](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend/blob/main/docs/python_based_backends.md#python-based-backends) [vLLM](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/tree/main) backend.

## Step 1: Start a docker container for triton-vllm serving

**A docker container is strongly recommended for serving**, and this tutorial will only demonstrate how to launch triton in docker env.

First, create a docker container using the NCG built for vllm serving:

```bash
# NOTICE: you must first cd to your vllm_workspace path outside the container.
mkdir vllm_workspace && cd vllm_workspace

sudo docker run --gpus all -it --net=host -p 8001:8001 --shm-size=12G \
--ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 -v ${PWD}:/vllm_workspace \
-w /vllm_workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:<xx.yy>-vllm-python-py3 \
/bin/bash
```

**NOTICE:** the version of triton docker image should be configurated, here we use `<xx.yy>` to symbolize.

> Triton's vLLM container has been introduced starting from 23.10 release, and `lora` support will be added in future release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Triton's vLLM container has been introduced starting from 23.10 release, and `lora` experimental support was added in vLLM v0.3.0 release.
```
Feel free to update vLLM version to a correct one with LoRA

> Docker image version `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.12-vllm-python-py3` or higher version is strongly recommended.

---

For **pre-24.yy containers**, the docker images don't support multi-lora feature, so you need to replace that provided in the container `/opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm/model.py` with the most up to date version. Just follow these steps:

> Download the `model.py` script from github:
> 
> ```bash
> wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/src/model.py
> ```
> 
> Copy this script to the backend path of triton inside the container:
> 
> ```bash
> cp ./model.py /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm/
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download the `model.py` script from github:

```bash
wget -P /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm/ https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/src/model.py
```

```

Maybe combining the 2 steps will be easier to undeerstand?

## Step 2: Install vLLM with multi-lora feature

We are now in the docker container, and **the following operations will be done in container environment.**

```bash
cd /vllm_workspace
```

**NOTICE**: To enable multi-lora feature and speed up the inference, developers have integrated punica kernels into the `csrc` directory. To compile the punica kernels, you need to turn the `VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS` env variable on to allow punica kernels compilation.

By default, the punica kernels will **NOT** be compiled when installing the vLLM.

__2.1 install with pip__

```bash

> VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS=1 pip install vllm

Reviewer 2: here and later, please include reference to vllm version used by Triton for consistency

```

__2.2 build from source (Recommended)__

As alternative, you can build vLLM from source code:

git clone vllm repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm.git
```

All you need to do is to follow the simple step:

```bash
cd vllm
VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS=1 pip install -e .
```

This may take you 5-10 mins.

## Step 3: Prepare your weights

To support multi-lora on Triton, you need to manage your file path for **model backbone** and **lora weights** seperately.

A typical weights repository can be as follows:

```
weights
├── backbone
│   └── llama-7b-hf
└── loras
    ├── alpaca-lora-7b
    └── bactrian-x-llama-lora-7b
```

> > A workspace for `vllm`, and `model backbone weights`, `LoRA adapter weights` is strongly recommended. 
> > 
> > You should expand the storage of these weight files to ensure they are logically organized in the workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A workspace for `vllm`, and `model backbone weights`, `LoRA adapter weights` is strongly recommended. 
You should expand the storage of these weight files to ensure they are logically organized in the workspace.
```

## Step 4: Prepare `model repository` for Triton Server

__4.1 Download the model repository files__

To use Triton, a model repository is needed, for *model path* , *backend configuration* and other information. The vllm backend is implemented based on python backend, and `sampling_params` of vllm are sampled from `model.json`.

To create a triton model repository, you may download the files through these commands:

```bash
# NOTICE: you must first cd to your vllm_workspace path.
cd /vllm_workspace

mkdir -p model_repository/vllm_model/1

> wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/samples/model_repository/vllm_model/1/model.json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/r<xx.yy>/samples/model_repository/vllm_model/1/model.json
```

> wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/ https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/samples/model_repository/vllm_model/config.pbtxt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/ https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/r<xx.yy>/samples/model_repository/vllm_model/config.pbtxt
```

    └── vllm_model
        ├── 1
        │   └── model.json
        └── config.pbtxt
```

__4.2 Populate `model.json`__

For this tutorial we will use the following set of parameters, specified in the `model.json`.

```json
{
    "model":"/vllm_workspace/weights/backbone/llama-7b-hf",
    "disable_log_requests": "true",
    "gpu_memory_utilization": 0.8,
    "tensor_parallel_size": 2,
    "block_size": 16,
    "enable_lora": "true",
    "max_lora_rank": 16
}
```

+ `model`: The path to your model repository
+ `disable_log_requests`: To show logs when launch vllm or not.
+ `gpu_memory_utilization`: The gpu memory allocated for the model weights and vllm *PagedAttention* kv cache manager.
+ `tensor_parallel_size`: The vllm now support the tensor paralism, so you can decide how many gpus you want to use for serving.
+ `block_size`: vLLM kv cache block size.
+ `enable_lora`: If you want to support vllm multi-lora, this should be configured and set `true`.
+ `max_lora_rank`: The maximum of LoRA rank of your lora adapter.

The full set of parameters can be found [here](https://github.com/Yard1/vllm/blob/multi_lora/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L11).

__4.3 Specify local lora path__

> So far the [vLLM multi-lora PR](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/pull/1804) just supported the inference of **local lora weights applying**, which means that the vllm cannot pull any lora adapter from huggingface. So triton should know where the local lora weights are.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a version reference, please? Something like as of v0.3.0 or v0.3.2?

>
> `<xx.yy>` represents the Triton version, and you must specify the Triton version you want to use for the bash command to work.

## Step 1: Start a docker container for triton-vllm serving

**A docker container is strongly recommended for serving**, and this tutorial will only demonstrate how to launch triton in docker env.

First, create a docker container using the NCG built for vllm serving:

```bash
# NOTICE: you must first cd to your vllm_workspace path outside the container.
mkdir vllm_workspace && cd vllm_workspace

sudo docker run --gpus all -it --net=host -p 8001:8001 --shm-size=12G \
--ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 -v ${PWD}:/vllm_workspace \
-w /vllm_workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:<xx.yy>-vllm-python-py3 \
/bin/bash
```

**NOTICE:** the version of triton docker image should be configurated, here we use `<xx.yy>` to symbolize.

Triton's vLLM container has been introduced starting from 23.10 release, and `multi-lora` experimental support was added in vLLM v0.3.0 release.

> Docker image version `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:24.03-vllm-python-py3` or higher version is strongly recommended.

---

> For **pre-24.03 containers**, the docker images didn't support multi-lora feature, so you need to replace that provided in the container `/opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm/model.py` with the most up to date version. Just follow this command:

Reviewer: I believe this version(24.03) needs to updated to a version when this PR gets merged.  We have already code-frozen for 24.04 release. So, this would be 24.05 assuming PR gets merged before 24.05 code freeze. 
Can you change this version to 24.05 and add a TODO comment to check for the correct version?

Author: changed to 24.05, and added a TODO comment.

Download the `model.py` script from github:

```bash
wget -P /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm/ https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/r<xx.yy>/src/model.py
```

> **Notice:** `r<xx.yy>` is the triton version you need to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Notice:** `r<xx.yy>` is the triton version you need to configure to r24.04 or later release.
```

> This command will download the `model.py` script to the Triton vllm backend directory to support multi-lora feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will download the `model.py` script to the Triton vllm backend directory which will enable multi-lora feature.
```

## Step 2: Install vLLM with multi-lora feature

We are now in the docker container, and **the following operations will be done in container environment.**

```bash
cd /vllm_workspace
```

> **NOTICE**: To enable multi-lora feature and speed up the inference, developers have integrated punica kernels into the `csrc` directory. To compile the punica kernels, you need to turn the `VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS` env variable on to allow punica kernels compilation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTICE**: To enable multi-lora feature and speed up the inference, vLLM has integrated punica kernels. To compile the punica kernels, you need to turn the `VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS` env variable on to allow punica kernels compilation.
```

By default, the punica kernels will **NOT** be compiled when installing the vLLM.

__2.1 install with pip__

For Triton version before 24.05, you need the following command:

```bash
VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS=1 pip install vllm==0.3.0
```

__2.2 build from source__

As alternative, you can build vLLM from source code:

git clone vllm repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm.git
```

All you need to do is to follow the simple step:

```bash
cd vllm
VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS=1 pip install .
```

> This may take you 5-10 mins.

Reviewer: If it takes only 5-10 min, do you think we can enable VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS  by default in our container image? The users would then not have to go through this extra step and can utilize LoRA directly. 
However, I see this issue which complains that it takes significantly longer to build the kernels.
https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/issues/2604

Reviewer 2: Was also intended to ask that. I don't see any issues with us doing it in our container as a follow-up to this PR. Can come back and update these docs after the change

        │   └── model.json
        └── config.pbtxt
```

__4.2 Populate `model.json`__

For this tutorial we will use the following set of parameters, specified in the `model.json`.

```json
{
    "model":"/vllm_workspace/weights/backbone/llama-7b-hf",
    "disable_log_requests": "true",
    "gpu_memory_utilization": 0.8,
    "tensor_parallel_size": 2,
    "block_size": 16,
    "enforce_eager": "true",
    "enable_lora": "true",
    "max_lora_rank": 16
}
```

+ `model`: The path to your model repository
+ `disable_log_requests`: To show logs when launch vllm or not.
+ `gpu_memory_utilization`: The gpu memory allocated for the model weights and vllm *PagedAttention* kv cache manager.
+ `tensor_parallel_size`: The vllm now support the tensor paralism, so you can decide how many gpus you want to use for serving.
+ `block_size`: vLLM kv cache block size.
+ `enable_lora`: If you want to support vllm multi-lora, this should be configured and set `true`.
+ `max_lora_rank`: The maximum of LoRA rank of your lora adapter.

The full set of parameters can be found [here](https://github.com/Yard1/vllm/blob/multi_lora/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L11).

__4.3 Specify local lora path__

> vLLM v0.3.0 just supported the inference of **local lora weights applying**, which means that the vllm cannot pull any lora adapter from huggingface. So triton should know where the local lora weights are.

Reviewer: Has this changed for vLLM 0.4.0? Triton has advanced the vLLM version to 0.4.0.post1. See here: https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/build.py#L79
I believe we should mention same vLLM version that we are shipping with Triton 24.05. 

@oandreeva-nv  Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: Let's confirm the behavior in vLLM 0.4.0.post1.

touch multi_lora.json
```

The content of `multi_lora.json` should look like this:

```json
{
    "alpaca": "/vllm_workspace/weights/loras/alpaca-lora-7b",
    "bactrian": "/vllm_workspace/weights/loras/bactrian-x-llama-7b-lora"
}
```

The **key** should be the supported lora name, and the **value** should be the specific path in your machine.

> **Warning**: if you set `enable_lora` to `true` in `model.json` without creating a `multi_lora.json` file, the server will throw `FileNotFoundError` when initializing.

## Step 5: Launch Triton

```bash
# NOTICE: you must first cd to your vllm_workspace path.
cd /vllm_workspace
tritonserver --model-store ./model_repository
```

After you start Triton you will see output on the console showing the server starting up and loading the model. When you see output like the following, Triton is ready to accept inference requests.

```
I1030 22:33:28.291908 1 grpc_server.cc:2513] Started GRPCInferenceService at 0.0.0.0:8001
I1030 22:33:28.292879 1 http_server.cc:4497] Started HTTPService at 0.0.0.0:8000
I1030 22:33:28.335154 1 http_server.cc:270] Started Metrics Service at 0.0.0.0:8002
```

## Step 6: Send a request

> A client request script for multi-lora was prepared, downloading the client script from source:

Reviewer: A client request script for multi-lora is included in the samples: [client_lora.py](../samples/client_lora.py)

> ```bash

Reviewer: Remove this... The above relative link will point to the client for the specific release. There is a possibility that there might be some breaking changes needed in the client script and the script from main might not work with older release.

# Depolying multi-lora vLLM backend in Triton

The idea of multi-lora was proposed recently, for more you can read the paper:

+ [S-LoRA: Serving Thousands of Concurrent LoRA Adapters](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03285)
+ [Punica: Multi-Tenant LoRA Serving](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18547)

Now the vLLM has supported multi-lora, which integrated the `Punica` feature and related cuda kernels. See this [PR](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/pull/1804) for more. (2024-01-24 this PR has been merged into the main branch of vLLM)

The following tutorial demonstrates how to deploy **a LLaMa model** with **multiple loras** on Triton Inference Server using the Triton's [Python-based](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/backend/blob/main/docs/python_based_backends.md#python-based-backends) [vLLM](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/tree/main) backend.

> ## Step 0: Prepare vLLM multi-lora version

Reviewer 2: May I ask you to start tutorial's indexing from 1 and not 0?

> git clone vllm repository:

Reviewer 2: Can we do `pip install` ?

Reviewer 2: Or because of `punica kernels` we need to install from source>

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm.git
```

and then install vLLM from the source code.

**NOTICE**: To enable multi-lora feature and speed up the inference, developers have integrated punica kernels into the `csrc` directory. To compile the punica kernels, you need to turn this env variable on to allow punica kernels compilation.

By default, the punica kernels will **NOT** be compiled.

All you need to do is to follow the simple step:

```bash
cd vllm
VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS=1 pip install -e .
```

This may take you 5-10 mins.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think 2 lines is enough

## Step 1: prepare your weights

To support multi-lora on Triton, you need to manage your file path for **model backbone** and **lora weights** seperately.

A typical weights repository can be as follows:

```
weights
├── backbone
│   └── llama-7b-hf
└── loras
    ├── alpaca-lora-7b
    └── bactrian-x-llama-lora-7b
```

A workspace for vllm, and model weights, LoRA adapter weights is strongly recommended, you can use the command:

```bash
mkdir -p vllm_workspace/weights
cd vllm_workspace
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ditto

## Step 2: prepare model repository

> 

Reviewer 2: 1 line is enough

> > Docker image version `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.12-vllm-python-py3` or higher version is strongly recommended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Docker image version `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:24.03-vllm-python-py3` or higher version is strongly recommended.
```

To create a triton model repository, you may download the files through these commands:

```bash
# NOTICE: you must first cd to your vllm_workspace path.
cd vllm_workspace

mkdir -p model_repository/vllm_model/1
wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/samples/model_repository/vllm_model/1/model.json
wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/ https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/samples/model_repository/vllm_model/config.pbtxt
```

The model repository should look like this:

```
model_repository/
└── vllm_model
    ├── 1
    │   └── model.json
    └── config.pbtxt
```

---

Now, you have finished the basic deployment, and the file structure should look like this:

```
vllm_workspace
├── weights
│   ├── backbone
│   │   └── llama-7b-hf
│   └── loras
│       ├── alpaca-lora-7b
│       └── bactrian-x-llama-lora-7b
│
└── model_repository
    └── vllm_model
        ├── 1
        │   └── model.json
        └── config.pbtxt
```

> 

Reviewer 2: 1 line is enough

> For Triton version before 24.02, you need the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Triton version before 24.05, you need the following command:
```

Reviewer 2: This feature will likely be released in 24.05 version. I'll update our vLLM installation to use punica kernels as well

> __2.2 build from source (Recommended)__

Reviewer 2: Why is this option recommended?

Author: Sorry, it is a historical issue, when multi-lora feature hasn't been added to vLLM in early time, developers can only install vllm through source code to enable this feature. 

Now this tip can be removed :)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> VLLM_INSTALL_PUNICA_KERNELS=1 pip install -e .

Reviewer 2: I think `-e` can be removed, as this will install vllm in editor mode, which is not necessary for users

__2.2 Populate `model.json`__

For this tutorial we will use the following set of parameters, specified in the `model.json`.

```json
{
    "model":"/vllm_workspace/weights/backbone/llama-7b-hf",
    "disable_log_requests": "true",
    "gpu_memory_utilization": 0.8,
    "tensor_parallel_size": 2,
    "block_size": 16,
    "enable_lora": "true",
    "max_lora_rank": 16
}
```

+ `model`: The path to your model repository
+ `disable_log_requests`: To show logs when launch vllm or not.
+ `gpu_memory_utilization`: The gpu memory allocated for the model weights and vllm *PagedAttention* kv cache manager.
+ `tensor_parallel_size`: The vllm now support the tensor paralism, so you can decide how many gpus you want to use for serving.
+ `block_size`: vLLM kv cache block size.
+ `enable_lora`: If you want to support vllm multi-lora, this should be configured and set `true`.
+ `max_lora_rank`: The maximum of LoRA rank of your lora adapter.

The full set of parameters can be found [here](https://github.com/Yard1/vllm/blob/multi_lora/vllm/engine/arg_utils.py#L11).

> 

Reviewer 2: ditto

__2.3 Specify local lora path__

Now (2023.11.29) the [vLLM multi-lora PR](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/pull/1804) just supported the inference of **local lora weights applying**, which means that the vllm cannot pull any lora adapter from huggingface. So triton should know where the local loras weights are.

Create a `multi_lora.json` file under `model_repository/vllm_model/1/` path:

```bash
cd model_repository/vllm_model/1
touch multi_lora.json
```

A `multi_lora.json` should look like this:

```json
{
    "alpaca": "/vllm_workspace/weights/loras/alpaca-lora-7b",
    "bactrian": "/vllm_workspace/weights/loras/bactrian-x-llama-7b-lora"
}
```

The **key** should be the supported lora name, and the **value** should be the specific path in your machine.

> 

Reviewer 2: 2 lines is fine

## Step 3: Start a docker container for triton-vllm serving

**A docker container is strongly recommended for serving**, and this tutorial will only demonstrate how to launch triton in docker env.

First, create a docker container using the NCG built for vllm serving:

```bash
# NOTICE: you must first cd to your vllm_workspace path.
cd vllm_workspace

sudo docker run --gpus all -it --net=host -p 8001:8001 --shm-size=12G \
--ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 -v ${PWD}:/vllm_workspace \
-w /vllm_workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:<xx.yy>-vllm-python-py3 \
/bin/bash
```

**NOTICE:** the version of triton docker image should be configurated, here we use `<xx.yy>` to symbolize.

Triton's vLLM container has been introduced starting from 23.10 release, and `lora` support will be added in future release.

Here we recommend you to use `23.12` version, like this:

```bash
sudo docker run --gpus all -it --net=host -p 8001:8001 --shm-size=12G \
--ulimit memlock=-1 --ulimit stack=67108864 -v ${PWD}:/vllm_workspace \

> -w /vllm_workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.12-vllm-python-py3 \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-w /vllm_workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:<xx.yy>-vllm-python-py3 \
```

Author: I will just remove this bash command example and reserve the former one.

/bin/bash
```

---

For **pre-24.yy containers**, the `model.py` file doesn't support multi-lora feature, so you need to replace that provided in the container `/opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm/model.py` with the most up to date version. Just follow these steps:

Download the `model.py` script from github:

```bash
wget -P model_repository/vllm_model/1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/src/model.py
```

Copy this script to the backend path of triton:

```bash
cp ./model.py /opt/tritonserver/backends/vllm/
```

> 

Reviewer 2: 2 lines is fine

## Step 4: Launch Triton

```bash
tritonserver --model-store ./model_repository
```

After you start Triton you will see output on the console showing the server starting up and loading the model. When you see output like the following, Triton is ready to accept inference requests.

```
I1030 22:33:28.291908 1 grpc_server.cc:2513] Started GRPCInferenceService at 0.0.0.0:8001
I1030 22:33:28.292879 1 http_server.cc:4497] Started HTTPService at 0.0.0.0:8000
I1030 22:33:28.335154 1 http_server.cc:270] Started Metrics Service at 0.0.0.0:8002
```

> 

Reviewer 2: 2 lines is fine

## Step 5: Send a request

A client request script for multi-lora was prepared, downloading the client script from source:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/samples/client_lora.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/triton-inference-server/vllm_backend/main/samples/prompts.txt
```

Try running this script:

```bash
python3 client_lora.py -l alpaca
```

> 

Reviewer 2: remove extra lines
